# Multi-Modal-Few-Shot-Learning-for-Anthesis-Prediction-of-Individual-Wheat-Plants
This is share code for 'Multi-Modal Few-Shot Learning for Anthesis Prediction of Individual Wheat Plants'

Anthesis prediction is crucial for breeding wheat. While current tools provide estimates of average anthesis at the field scale, they fail to address the needs of breeders who require accurate predictions for individual plants. Hybrid breeders have to finalize their plans for pollination at least 10 days before such flowering is due and biotechnology field trials in the United States and Australia must report to regulators 7 to 14 days before the first plant flowers. Currently, predicting anthesis of individual wheat plants is a labour-intensive, inefficient, and costly process. Individual wheat of the same cultivar within the same field may exhibit substantial variations in anthesis timing, due to significant variations in their immediate surroundings. In this study, we proposed a machine vision solution to predict anthesis of individual wheat plants that is accurate, efficient and economical. We use a multimodal approach that combines imagery with in-situ meteorological measurements to accurately forecast anthesis in individual plants in the field. We developed a novel approach that simplifies the anthesis prediction problem into binary or three-class classification tasks, which aligns better with breeders’ requirements in individual wheat flowering prediction on the crucial days before anthesis. Furthermore, we incorporated a few-shot learning method to improve the model's adaptability across different growth environments and to address the challenge of limited training data. The model achieved an F1 score above 0.8 in all planting settings.
